EPILEPSY WARNING AT 1:56
SKIP TO 2:00 IF YOU ARE SENSITIVE
Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and gentlemen.
Everything changes for 3 friends after a hunt for a hacker goes terribly wrong.
This is The Signal
So this is Nic, he's a cripple with a heart of gold
and he's smart enough to get into MIT [The
Massachusetts Institute of Technology]
Now he's on road trip with his girlfriend, Haley, and
his best friend and fellow hacker, Jonah,
who is trying to track down a mysterious
hacker known as Nomad.
Now, Nomad is really good at hacking: wayback
when, Nomad hacked into MIT’s servers which
got Nic and Jonah’s curiosity.
That night, Nic and Jona stay at a motel,
where Nic and Jona get another message from
Nomad and it doesn’t say much.
So Nic, fed up with Nomad, tells him “We
will expose you”.
Only to get another message a few seconds
later, Nomad has hacked into Haley’s laptop
and is using its webcam to spy on Nic and
Jonah.
And then they realize that Nomad is a hacker
on a whole nother level.
So they track NOMAD’s IP address and figure
out Nomad’s real world location: somewhere
in Nevada.
So off they go to hunt down Nomad.
On their way there, they stop at a gas station
and we learn a bit more about the group: Nic
has become distant to Haley, because Haley’s
moving to go to a different school, away from
Nic and Jonah which is putting some stress
on Nic and Haley’s relationship.
When he and Haley talk about her moving, he
confesses that he feels like he’s holding
her back and he’s afraid that when they
break up: it’ll hurt.
And Haley takes it as well as you would.
After driving into Nevada, the group tracks
NOMAD’s location to an abandoned house in
the middle of nowhere.
So Nic and Jonah go to investigate and they
bring a video camera to film the whole experience.
And after some searching, they find a room
that leads to the basement and down here they
find some strange server racks.
And that’s when they hear a scream.
Haley!
They run upstairs to find Haley is gone and
the car doors are left opened and when they
turn around they see Haley get violently pulled
up into the sky and they rush after her as
a bright light glows brighter and brighter
until finally...
He’s in some sort of facility where people
in hazmat suits work; he’s put in a wheelchair
and taken to a room.
Meet Dr. Wallace Damon, he is a scientist
that’s part of a team that’s trying to
understand what happened to Nic and his friends:
because Nic and his friends came into contact
with “The Signal”, which is an alien lifeform
or as they describe it
an ‘extra-terrestrial biological entity’.
And to make matters worse, Nic and his friends
may have been contaminated by The Signal in
some way.
And then Nic starts bleeding from the nose
and Damon walks over to Nic, reaching forward
and wiping it away.
He’s relieved: it’s just blood.
That’s the end of the ‘first’ session’,
and Nic is taken back to his room where he
finds a set of numbers tattooed on his arm:
2.3.5.41 as well as a seatbelt that’s locking
a blanket over his legs (Huh, weird).
And then we see that Nic is being watched
from behind one-way mirror.
it looks likes he’s going to trapped here.
Maybe, forever!
But slowly he begins making a plan to escape,
he just needs to figure out a few things first.
We then see Nic get wheeled around the facility,
and we see that there are rooms being deeply
cleaned but then he passes by a room and he
sees Haley, unconscious!
Something’s wrong with her!
But what?
And Nic desperately tries to get in there
but he’s taken away to his next session
with Damon.
And it’s here, Nic asks him what’s wrong
with Haley and Damon brushes him off and begins
interviewing Nic.
This time Nic is strapped to a lie-detector
and asked a series of questions.
Like “Do you have 10 toes?” and “Are
you from Earth”
Dumb questions but he answers them
After he answers the questions, he’s shown
the recording of the night he and Jonah went
into the house.
And then we see a face with big eyes, hiding
in a tree.
Nomad isn’t just a hacker: Nomad seems to
be an alien.
Nic is still shocked by the time he is brought
back into his room when he hears coughing
from the vents and he realizes it’s Jonah!
He begins talking with Jonah through the vent
and he finds out that they are somewhere underground,
contaminated with an alien virus or bacteria,
and that the scientists did something to Jonah.
In their next session, Nic asks Damon why
the clocks don’t work specifically the one
at 7 windows back, left turn, 4 windows, right
turn, 2 windows on the right, next to the
bathroom with the sign that’s upside down.
That clock.
And Damon just brushes it off as a ‘broken
clock’.
After doing a stupid test for Damon, Nic makes
a deal with him:
I’ll only do more tests IF you take me to Haley
So Damon takes Nic to see Haley, and when
Nic checks the clipboard there’s no information
written on it.
Strange.
But Damon explains that Haley’s in a coma
and that she’s being cared for,
so Nic doesn't have to worry.
And Nic is taken back to his room where gets
to work on his plan and the first step is
to make a device that allows him to blow cracker
dust on the keypad lock to figure out the
password.
He shares the password with Jonah but Jonah
tells Nic that he’s not feeling too good:
ever since he drank some weird stuff, Jonah
can’t feel his arms anymore.
And then we see Damon overseeing an experiment
where a cow is in a room, and slowly a door
in the back opens.
Damon plays a loud noise and then the lights
black out in the testing room and after a
few moments a chair hits the window.
That’s when the lights come back on, we
see the cow hiding behind a pillar and an
alarm is ringing.
But we have no idea what just happened, but
don’t worry, I’ll explain this later.
We then see Nic get pushed along a hallway,
as the lights turn off and the alarms turn on
And we overhear an announcement
“A Subject has escaped”.
As Nic gets taken back to Damon, he sees gouges
scratched into the walls of the hall.
What could have done this?
In the next session Nic asks Damon what happened
to the hallway and about Jonah.
But Damon doesn’t tell him about what happened
in the hallway but he does tell Nic that Jonah’s
body was never recovered: he was never here
in the facility.
And Nic’s confused: Then, wait, who was
I talking to through vent?
And Damon is like “Really?
Through the vent?
Are you sure about that?”
Leaving us and Nic, confused.
The scene ends and we have no idea if Damon
is lying or if Nic is going crazy.
And the next thing we see
Is Damon in Nic’s room, lifting his mattress,
to find Nic’s escape plan because Nic has
escaped.
And he has taken Haley with him, dragging
her bed behind him, attaching it to his wheelchair.
Dodging scientists and he almost manages to
escape but at the last moment he is stopped
by the scientists.
We then see a montage of Nic running and spending
time with Haley.
These are his memories and when Nic wakes
up, he’s staring into Haley’s eyes.
She’s awake now and they talk for a while
only for Haley to go back to sleep.
And Nic begins freaking out and tries to reach
for Haley.
The scientists in the room try to push him
away but accidentally push him off the bed.
And as soon as they realize this, the scientists
leave the room.
Nic sees black blood on his fingers and then
he sees his legs.
And we see his legs are robotic.
And he begins freaking out a bit but manages
to calm down and like any man makes sure it’s
only his legs and not his [Whistle] that’s
robotic.
And then Damon confesses, they knew about
this: the scientists saw that his legs had
changed and were interested in how he got
them.
But they didn’t want him to freak out so
they kept his legs covered up until now.
And Nic uses tape to cover his legs with a
blanket and Nic decides then and there that
he’s getting out of here.
He kicks down the door using his robotic legs
taking Haley with him, into the elevator.
He's made it!
But Damon stops them and pleads with Nic to
stay down here, because only down here can
Damon protect Nic from ‘them’.
As to who or what Damon is talking about?
We don’t find out as the elevator door closes
and Nic escapes with Haley taking her outside
to the middle of nowhere.
As Nic and Haley walk through the desert,
they’re picked up by a woman in an old car
and as they drive.
Suddenly, she stops,
listening to a noise.
“it’s God’s little angels.”
Her words, not mine.
So she’s obviously crazy.
They stop at a gas station, with Nic going
into the nearby service center, where he makes
a call as Haley waits near a big rig truck.
But Nic can’t get signal on the payphone
and to make matters worse, there’s a PSA
on TV warning people not to come in contact
with him.
And Haley just went into the big rig truck
and the truck is driving away.
So, Nic chases after the big rig truck and tries
to break in only to get knocked off by the
driver.
But guess what?
This just makes Nic even more determined to
save Haley and he starts sprinting and thanks
to is robot legs, he can catch up with the
truck pretty quickly.
And as the driver reaches for his gun, Haley
threatens him with his own gun, and kicks
him out, driving away with Nic, leaving the
driver on the side of the road.
And as they drive away, they suddenly stop
Because in front of them is a dead end.
The road is missing.
Meanwhile, we see Damon interrogating the
woman from earlier, and she’s gone crazy.
Repeating herself, saying random things, and
just like Nic, her nose starts to bleed and
as he sees this, Damon opens his red briefcase
where inside there’s a gun.
This can’t end well.
Nic and Haley drive around until they find
themselves at an abandoned visitor’s center.
Nic tries to find something inside that might help them but there’s nothing
although Haley has found a map and looking at it they realize that something’s wrong.
The way they drove doesn’t match the map
that he’s looking at, and as Nic tries to
figure out where they went wrong, he realizes
Haley’s outside.
And outside, she asks him if he hears ‘that
noise’.
He doesn’t hear it and he doesn’t know
how to get out of here.
Their best bet is to go across the river but
that’s going to be a challenge and right
now, they’re tired so can think about it tomorrow.
They sleep at at the visitor’s center only
to get woken up in the middle of the night by a noise.
And we see outside the visitor center a team
of gun men in hazmat suits approaching the
building.
Damon and his team have found them!
And as Nic and Haley hide behind a desk, Nic
peeks around the corner to our surprise he
finds Jonah’s there!
So Damon isn’t at the visitors center, he’s
actually visiting the truck driver from earlier,
trying to find out where Nic and Haley are.
And just like the woman from earlier?
The driver has gone a bit crazy and has become
childish, talking about his mommy and his
kitty until he finally snaps and tries to
kill Damon with a shotgun.
Damon just shoots him dead.
As Hailey sleeps, Nic finds a spinal implant
and some numbers on Haley’s back.
He still has no idea what happened to them
well he doesn’t but Jonah does.
Y’see, as Jonah and Nic talk, Jonah reveals
something very important: That ID number on
Nic’s wrist and presumably Haley’s back?
That’s not for a person.
It’s for an area: Area 51, the legendary
military base of the US Airforce.
So in case you didn’t know, is
a real place.
It’s a United States Airforce facility situated
in the Nevada.
Kept under heavy guard and kept top secret
so much in fact, that you can’t even see
it on Google Earth.
They censor it.
And because of this secrecy there are a lot
of theories as to what’s going on there,
and a lot of those theories believe that alien
technology is being studied at Area 51.
Which would explain why Damon is so interested
in Nic and his friends: he wants to understand
how they’ve changed, he wants to understand
why they’ve changed, and he probably wants
to know how he can use them.
At least that’s what it seems like.
So this whole area: the little town and the
roads and the buildings?
They’re fake.
It’s all under the control of Damon and
his team.
And that’s not the only reveal that Jonah
has for Nic: Jonah’s also changed.
His hands are robotic just like Nic’s legs.
So there are a few things about Jonah that you might not have realized yet:
#1) He was at the facility
Damon lied to Nic when he said that Jonah wasn't there
just to mess with Nic’s head.
Secondly, Jonah was in the room with the cow,
he was supposed to kill the cow with
his hands but he didn’t and he escaped which
is why there are those gouges in the walls:
He created them.
And chronologically, this makes sense, as
Nic tries to talk with Jonah through the vent.
But he can’t because by this point, Jonah
has already left the facility, he’s escaped
But this is perfect!
With these obvious robot body parts, they
can find the police or a news team and tell
the world about the messed up experiments
happening here!
They can expose Area 51 and Damon and then
they can go home free!
But first they have to get out and there’s
only 1 way out and that’s through a checkpoint.
And it’s there at the checkpoint the next day, where things
go bad:
They’re stopped at the checkpoint
and Jonah is asked to get out of the truck,
but if he does that it’ll reveal who they are
He tries to drive away only for the car blockers
to come up, stopping his wheels.
There’s no way out, so Jonah attacks a guard,
taking his gun and runs into the guardpost
where he tries using a laptop to hack the
car stoppers.
But he can’t!
His fingers too big and clunky.
And that’s when a grenade comes flying through
the window and explodes, so as Jonah stumbles
to the truck, his arms are glowing, but he
ends up getting shot.
He’s dying, he’s not going to make it
and so his last actions before he dies is
to SMASH the car stoppers with his hands and
set Nic and Haley free.
As Nic drives off, he leaves Jonah to his
last moments: smashing the ground and sending
the people around him flying!
But there’s one last roadblock: Damon with
his crew of guards, snipers and cars.
The guard’s throw a spike strip that stops
the truck.
And as it flips over and crashes, Haley
and Nic are left lying on the road, holding
their hands, and Nic can do nothing but watch
as Hailey is taken away in a helicopter.
All he is left with, of Hayley, is Haley’s
necklace.
He gets up, he’s so close to escaping if
he can just get past the guards!
But Damon warns him that there’s no way
he’s getting out alive.
And Damon can’t help but be pleased.
Nic is ‘their’ greatest achievement: The
Perfect Fusion of alien technology and human will
That’s when Nic has a realization: He stares
at Damon’s name tag.
Damon.
NOMAD.
Damon is Nomad and with a furious yell, his
legs light up and he blazes a trail past the
barricade, past the gunman, screaming across
the bridge, breaking the sound barrier, and
straight through… glass!
And he finds himself in an industrial building
and as he turns back, he sees Damon take off
his helmet to reveal that he’s actually
a robot!
And as the movie ends, we get a better view
of where Nic is: inside Area 51, a giant floating
spaceship going into an even larger spaceship
in a galaxy far, far away from Earth
So what just happened?
Well, in case it wasn’t clear: Nic, Haley,
and Jonah were abducted by aliens.
That desert that they were in was just an
elaborate, life-sized simulation created by
the aliens to keep tabs on their human test
subjects.
The simulation was meant to look and feel
like Earth to keep the humans calm and to
allow the aliens to conduct their tests.
What are they testing?
The ability of the humans to use the alien
technology to it’s fullest potential.
Because the aliens are trying to find the
perfect fusion of human will and alien technology.
And we see how they test this by sending the
characters into high stress situations where
they are forced to use their new body parts:
Like Jonah for example.
Jonah’s put into a room where he was supposed
to kill a cow but he doesn’t and then later,
after he fails to hack a laptop he has no
choice but to smash the concrete car stoppers
with his hands and then he smashes ground
in his last stand showing the awesome power
of his hands.
And like Jonah, Nic was also tested: when
he was escaping, when he was chasing after
the truck and of course at the end of the
movie: where after he loses all his loved ones
He runs across the bridge so fast, that he
breaks the sound barrier.
Showing us what the perfect fusion of alien
technology and human will can do.
So before I forget, let’s talk about the
other people in the simulation.
They are just like Nic: they’ve been abducted
by the aliens except hey’ve been kept in
the spaceship for so long that they’ve gone
a bit crazy.
And interestingly enough, Damon calls a few
of them, like the truck driver and the old woman
By their names, which implies that he’s
had some time to get to know them.
And just to illustrate how long they’ve
been stuck in the spaceship (or at the least
the truck driver).
Now It’s implied that the truck driver has
been here since he was a child.
And we know because of a few things: #1) It’s
how he acts, and #2) it’s because he mentions
a few things specifically his ‘mommy’
and his ‘kitty’.
It’s a very childish way of talking about
your mom and your cat. Right?
It’s not conclusive.
But it is a subtle hint that he was abducted
as a child and he has grown up here in the
simulation.
With that being said, thank you so much for
watching ladies and gentlemen gentlemen.
If you enjoyed it, leave a like down below
below and subscribe to get updated on our
latest uploads.
Uploads Uploads.
Uploads.